I managed to top a Master Duel Challenger Cup competition! I didn’t manage to win any of the prize available sadly, but I was very happy to make top 64 in Farfa’s 2048-player tournament (although the actual sign-up figure was 967 players).
I lost in top 64 because I forgot to set spright smashers, letting my opponent go into Divine Arsenal AA-Zeus Sky Thunder. They could clear the field and I didn’t have enough to get back into the game.
I wanted to just write a quick article about some general pointers, my decklist and some thoughts regarding Master Duel and the challenger cup. Before that, it’s worth thanking my occasional sparing partner Joe, he is very knowledgeable on Yu-Gi-Oh as a whole and always very helpful to go to with ideas.
[image]
This is simply a very standard Spright Runick list, however without Wind-Up Kitten. I don’t really think Kitten offers you much compared to other card choices, usually you can use smashers, flashing fire, etc. to remove problem cards instead. 
If I were to make any changes, I would possibly take out an Ipiria or a Triple Tactics Talent for another Runick card. I would quite possibly even take out a Jet for another Runick spell, as it would allow you to get more draws off of Runick Fountain which helps massively later into the game.
In terms of matchups in the 8 rounds of Swiss, it was 3 pure Spright (W), 1 Runick Spright (L), 1 Despia (W), 1 Swordsoul (W) and 1 Punk (L). One MVP in Swiss was Triple Tactics Talent, it is such a diverse card and it does so much. Vs Swordsoul, it was great for stealing Archnemesis Protos and declaring ‘Water’, clearing Swordsoul Supreme Soverign – Chengying and a Swordsoul Token, before using Protos as Link Material for Elf.
In Top 64, I went against Tri-Brigade Lyrilusc. The pilot was very knowledgeable in his deck, using certain ‘tech’ choices to make up for the deck’s issue of not having any way to negate spell/trap cards. They ended up going out in Top 16, which is a great achievement.
I think with keeping focus and better match-up knowledge, as well as choosing the deck with Evenly Matched instead of Cosmic Cyclone for Game 2, then I would potentially have had a better chance.
I still think that getting into Top cut is a great achievement, as well as a great milestone to have reached. Most importantly, it means I know I can do it in future. 
To people who want some bit of advice, I would say that knowing your deck is one thing, knowing your opponent’s deck is another thing. Additionally, you need to have consistency and resilience in your play. In a Tournament setting, this game is about making a lot of decisions quickly under pressure. Don’t let your head go down if your opponent gets the upper hand, play until the death.
In terms of general Master Duel conversation, I think the game is in a healthy place but still has room to improve. Maxx ‘C’ probably needs to go, there were a lot of games played where it dictated who won on its own. Part of what helps the best decks is their ability to play through Maxx ‘C’. Other floodgates should also join it as well.
Having smaller tournaments that don’t take place in the middle of the working day would also help. These tournaments do take place in both CET and GMT, so there is an issue there, but you could easily do four/five rounds of Best of Three Swiss in that time with 32/64 players and do away with a topcut. This is how local tournaments work when they’re on weeknights.
How about some form of Tournament Pack? Having these for participating with increased chances of getting Royal Rare for your favourite cards would be a great way to get players who are more casual into these tournaments. 
The Master Duel Challenger Cup was a great way to get people playing again, but I think it could have prizes for all of top cut (I would’ve said this even if I got the Rescue Rabbit plushie…) and give you gems for each game you win as well to incentivise players to play it more. As stated above, the grand finale of 2048 players only had 967 players in the end. These are easy ways to put the numbers up.
But the main thing I think Master Duel gives is a reliable way to play Yu-Gi-Oh outside of locals. I have about 260 hours invested in it over the past year, so clearly these criticisms are not dealbreakers for me. I look forward to seeing how Challenger Cup Season 2 is formatted and where it goes post-Tearlaments being added to the game.